Changelog: DM-3475 Device Management - Empty Software Packages since 10.18 upgrade (#1962)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/asm-1-2-0-Remove-migration-mechanism.md

---
date:

> title: Software packages in c8y_InstalledSoftwareList are no longer emptied after resubscription of the ASM microservice  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Installed software packages are no longer emptied after restart of the Advanced software management microservice  
```

---
date:

> title: Removal of migration from ASM v1 to ASM v2 data model

Reviewer: The title should state what is working now (impact of the change for the user). This title is of no value for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Software packages in `c8y_InstalledSoftwareList` are no longer emptied after ASM resubscribed
```

Reviewer: What is ASM?

Reviewer 2: ASM is Advanced software management microservice. The abbreviation isn't widely known so I wouldn't use it.

> title: Software packages in c8y_InstalledSoftwareList are no longer emptied after resubscription of the Advanced Software Management microservice  

Author: OK

> title: Software packages in `c8y_InstalledSoftwareList` are no longer emptied after resubscription of the Advanced Software Management microservice  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Software packages in c8y_InstalledSoftwareList are no longer emptied after resubscription of the Advanced Software Management microservice  
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-VSkj2iV9m
    label: Fix
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:

>   - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - value: tc-TlhlHnKTa
```

    label: cumulocity
ticket: DM-3475

> version: 1.2.0, 10.16.0.478, 10.18.0.398, 10.17.0.506, 10.18.540.102

Reviewer: This does not work. After approval, I will graft this to 2024. For the older versions please copy the approved text into the ticket and I will take care.
1.2.0 is not a valid version.

Reviewer: But the build artifact is "cumulocity". Don´t we need another build artifact here then?

Author: @BeateRixen @l2p- do we need to do something like this:

A new build artifact called asm or advanced-software-management is created which can be used for the new component and cumulocity can be used for the older versions like 2024 and below

Then build_artifact could be like:

build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
  - value: <asm component id>
     label: asm

Reviewer 2: Yes since the change was done in the Advanced software management component after it was separated from the existing cumulocity we need to be able to reference these artifacts in docs

Author: @BeateRixen so the components that need to be created, which can be referenced in the docs PR are: advanced-software-management, device-simulator, loriot-agent, actility, cloud-remote-access, connectivity-agent-server

Reviewer: @ashhSAG93 The precise component names are  "advanced-software-mgmt", and "actility-agent" correct?

Reviewer: Added the listed components/build artifacts as spelled in the build pipeline dashboard.

Author: Will the references be updated in the Release notes process document?

Reviewer: Already added it there. You can also always find the IDs in the https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/blob/develop/data/buildartifact.json.

>     label: cumulocity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    label: advanced-software-mgmt
```

Author: @BeateRixen so the component will be updated to cumulocity while backporting to older versions? Is it not possible to have multiple labels

Reviewer: No, this is not possible. Should I leave cumulocity in oder versions? Please remove all versions except of the one for CD. And create a separate PR for 2024.

Author: I will keep it as advanced-software-mgmt for develop branch. I will create another PR for 2024 and earlier versions where the component will be cumulocity

> version: 1.2.0

Author: @BeateRixen version and component changes done as desired

---

> The issue of software packages in `c8y_InstalledSoftwareList` being emptied after ASM is resubscribed has been resolved. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issue has been resolved that software packages in `c8y_InstalledSoftwareList` were emptied after ASM was resubscribed. 
```

> The issue has been resolved that software packages in `c8y_InstalledSoftwareList` were emptied after the Advanced Software Management microservice (ASM) was resubscribed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This sentence should simply be removed the sentence below already has all the required info

> The mechanism of migrating the internal data model from asm-v1 to asm-v2 has been removed. 

Reviewer: Is this the way the issue was resolved? Or is this not connected?

Reviewer 2: We have never published anything about the different versions of the data model so referring to them here will not help users. I'd describe it like this:

An old data model migration mechanism was erroneously removing installed software information from devices when the Advanced software management microservice was resubscribed or restarted. We have removed this mechanism entirely so that existing data is no longer modified.
